0	"Species 2000 & ITIS Catalogue of Life Hierarchy, Edition 1 (2007)"	http://www.sp2000.org/	Species 2000 & ITIS Catalogue of Life		"The Species 2000 & ITIS Catalogue of Life is planned to become a comprehensive catalogue of all known species of organisms on Earth by the year 2011. Rapid progress has been made recently and this, the seventh edition of the Annual Checklist, contains 1,008,965 species. Please note that this is probably just more than half of the world's known species. This means that for many groups it continues to be deficient."	
1	Australian Faunal Directory (Pulmonata)	http://www.deh.gov.au/biodiversity/abrs/online-resources/fauna/afd/index.html	"Australian Biological Resources Study, Canberra, Australia"	"BJ Smith, S Reid & WF Ponder (Pulmonata); A Wells (ed)"	"The Australian Biological Resources Study (ABRS) aims to provide, through strategic partnerships, the underlying taxonomic knowledge necessary for the conservation and sustainable use of Australia’s biodiversity. Through its many online databases and keys, ABRS delivers taxonomic and biological information on species known to occur in Australia. The Australian Faunal Directory (AFD) provides taxonomic and biological information on Australia’s animal species. About 50% of the species described in Australia are recorded in the AFD. The AFD contributes nearly 1,000 species of snails and slugs (Mollusca: Pulmonata) to the Catalogue of Life."	"BJ Smith, S Reid & WF Ponder (Pulmonata); A Wells (ed)"
2	AlgaeBase	http://www.algaebase.org/	"Martin Ryan Institute, National University of Ireland, Galway, Ireland"	M Guiry	"Algaebase aspires to include all organisms regarded as algae, including the Cyanophyta (or Cyanobacteria). Primarily a taxonomic database, it has diverse information on freshwater, marine (seaweeds) and terrestrial algae, including uses and many pictures. Seagrasses are also included for the present. About 55,000 names are currently documented. AlgaeBase was developed at the Martin Ryan Institute, National University of Ireland, Galway, with support from the Higher Education Authority (Irish Department of Education and Science) and the European Commission."	M Guiry
3	BioSystematic Database of World Diptera	http://www.diptera.org	"USDA Systematic Entomology Laboratory, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, USA"	FC Thompson	"The Biosystematics Database of World Diptera (BDWD) provides a comprehensive portal to knowledge about dipterans as well as a framework to organize and integrate future data and knowledge. More than 150,000 species of Diptera have been described under >250,000 names. We have only begun to properly document these names, and we will undoubtedly discover many more. The BDWD provides a synonymic checklist to enable the user to find the correct name for each dipteran. A species database and web-portal are also available along with full documentation at the Diptera website."	FC Thompson
4	Bacteriology Insight Orienting System	http://www.sp2000ao.nies.go.jp/english/bios/index.html	"National Institute for Environmental Studies, Tsukuba, Japan"	J Shimura	"BIOS contains data on 8,242 validly published species and subspecies and 2,000 higher taxa of the world’s Bacteria, Archaea and Cyanobacteria. BIOS contributes only the Bacteria and Archaea to the Catalogue of Life this year. Besides taxonomic and strain data, BIOS contains links to further information in the NamesforLife prototype. The BIOS system was developed by a team based at the National Institute for Environmental Studies (Japan) and is part of a collaborative effort that includes contributions by J Euzéby and B Tindall. The taxonomy is based on Release 7.4 of the nomenclatural taxonomy of GM Garrity, TG Lilburn and JR Cole."	"J Shimura, K Hiraki & GM Garrity (eds)"
5	Catalogue of Craneflies of the World	http://ip30.eti.uva.nl/ccw/	"Entomology Section, Zoological Museum, University of Amsterdam / ETI BioInformatics, The  Netherlands"	P Oosterbroek	"The Catalogue of the Craneflies of the World (CCW) covers all genera, subgenera, species, subspecies, and synonyms of the World Tipuloidea (Insecta - Diptera - Nematocera - families Pediciidae, Limoniidae, Cylindrotomidae, Tipulidae), in total 17,307 taxa. It also includes up to date information on the distribution of the species and subspecies, specified by countries and, for the larger countries, states, provinces, islands."	P Oosterbroek
6	Computer Aided Identification of Phlebotomine sandflies of Americas	http://cipa.snv.jussieu.fr	"Université Pierre et Marie Curie, Paris, France"	R Vignes-Lebbe & C Gallut	"CIPA includes information on 418 neotropical sandfly (Phlebotominae) species. These blood-sucking insects are important as vectors transmitting human and animal diseases, e.g. leishmaniasis, bartonellosis, arboviruses. In addition to the data contributed to the Catalogue of Life, CIPA also provides an interactive key and data on the ecology and epidemiology of the group. CIPA is an international project involving experts from 9 countries and was supported by the Program for Science & Technology Cooperation, Office of the Science Advisor, USA; Agency for International Development, and the Scientific & Technical Cooperation, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, France."	R Vignes-Lebbe & C Gallut
7	Additional Common Names for the Catalogue of Life	http://www.sp2000.org	IfM-GEOMAR	R Froese	"Common names provide an important entry to species information, but not all Source Databases in the Species 2000 & ITIS Catalogue of Life are able to supply such names for their groups. In this version of the Annual Checklist 14,939 common names have been added by the ENBI cluster project as a direct contribution to the Catalogue of Life. Additional common names have been collected from FAO ASFIS list of marine species and other multilingual dictionaries of organisms."	R Froese
8	EMBL Reptile Database	http://www.reptile-database.org	"Institut fur Genetik, Karlsruhe, Germany"	P Uetz	"The EMBL Reptile database provides information on the classification of all living reptiles (not dinosaurs) by listing all species and their higher taxa such as families. The database lists all living snakes, lizards, amphisbaenians, tuataras, turtles, and crocodiles. The focus is on scientific names, synonyms, distributions and references. Within the original EMBL database there are a limited number of species accounts containing descriptions and links to external sources including pictures."	P Uetz
9	World Biodiversity Database (Euphausiacea)	http://www.eti.uva.nl/database/wbd.html	"ETI BioInformatics, Amsterdam, The Netherlands"	"E Brinton, MD Ohman, AW Townsend, MD Knight & AL Bridgeman (eds of Euphausiacea)"	"ETI is a non-governmental organization in operational relation with UNESCO, dedicated to improving on a global scale the quantity, quality and accessibility of taxonomic information. The ‘Euphausiids of the World Ocean’ database covers all 86 species of the order Euphausiacea (krill) in the oceans, and was produced at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography. It is part of ETI’s World Biodiversity Database. The full database is published on CD-ROM (ISBN 3-540-14673-3), and includes a fully illustrated multiple-entry key, a picture key, interactive distribution maps, and a special database treating larval development for most species."	"E Brinton, MD Ohman, AW Townsend, MD Knight & AL Bridgeman (eds of Euphausiacea)"
10	FishBase	http://www.fishbase.org	IfM-GEOMAR; AUTH; FAO; FC-UBC; MNHN; MRAC; NRM; WorldFish	R Froese & D Pauly (eds)	"FishBase is a global information system with extensive information on all species of fish. In addition to the data contributed to the Catalogue of Life, the original FishBase database also includes descriptive, physiological and conservation data and onward links to information in many other databases. It is supported by a consortium of eight institutions including the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. Data entry and maintenance is done mainly at the WorldFish Center in the Philippines, in collaboration with many other partners, and with support from the European Commission."	R Froese & D Pauly (eds)
11	Fulgoromorpha Lists On the WEB	http://lis.snv.jussieu.fr/flow	"Muséum National d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris, France"	T Bourgoin	"FLOW is an on-line database on planthoppers (Insecta, Hemiptera, Fulgoromorpha). The primary goals of the project are to organize and to give easy access to the published taxonomic and biological data already available on this group and to facilitate and promote fundamental and applied research in Fulgoromorpha. In the future, FLOW will provide an up-to-date referenced database on Fulgoromorpha taxonomy, with information about planthopper primary data: morphology (project FAME - Fulgoromorpha Anatomy and Morphology Exploration), molecular data, etho-ecology (including photos) and biogeography. FLOW and FAME are part of the BEFRI (Biodiversity and Evolution of Fulgoromorpha: a global Research Initiative) project."	T Bourgoin
12	Glomeromycota database	http://www.AMF-phylogeny.com	"Department of Biology, Technische Universität Darmstadt, Germany"	A Schüßler; C Walker (custodian)	"The majority of plants, strictly speaking, do not have roots; they have mycorrhiza. A mycorrhiza is a symbiotic association of a fungus with plant roots, found in the majority of plant species. The most widely distributed mycorrhizal 'type', both through the plant kingdom (formed by about 80% of all vascular plants) and geographically, is an endomycorrhiza formed by the Glomeromycota and called arbuscular mycorrhiza (AM). In this, hyphae colonize plant cells and produce finely branched structures (the arbuscules). This symbiosis feeds most land plants with nutrients from the soil."	A Schüßler
13	Hexacorallians of the World	http://hercules.kgs.ku.edu/hexacoral/anemone2/index.cfm	"University of Kansas and Kansas Geological Survey, Lawrence, USA"	DG Fautin	"This database contributes data on members of the order Actiniaria (sea anemones) to the Catalogue of Life. The original Hexacorals database also provides information on the taxa, literature, type specimens, distribution maps, and images of extant hexacorallians. As well as the order Actiniaria, the Hexacorals database also includes data on members of the orders Corallimorpharia, Ptychodactiaria, and Zoanthidea (sea anemones in the loose sense), Ceriantharia (tube anemones), and Scleractinia (hard or stony corals)."	DG Fautin
14	The Universal Virus database of the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses	http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/ICTVdb/index.htm	International Committee on the Taxonomy of Viruses (ICTV)	C Büchen-Osmond (ed)	"The universal system of virus taxonomy now recognises  about 2000 virus species and the 6500 virus entries (species & sequenced isolates) listed in the 8th ICTV Report 2005. The database captures records as they appear in sequence databases and refers these to ICTV study groups for  taxonomic verification. Each isolate is uniquely identified in ICTVdB by a decimal code that indicates the taxonomic status of the virus entry. The database records all viral properties: genomic data, morphology, hosts and epidemiology. ICTVdB is the taxonomic reference for sequence data in GenBank and UniProt."	C Büchen-Osmond (ed)
15	ILDIS World Database of Legumes	http://www.ildis.org	International Legume Database and Information Service (ILDIS)	"YR Roskov, FA Bisby, JL Zarucchi, BD Schrire & RJ White (eds)"	"The International Legume Database and Information Service (ILDIS) is a long-term programme of co-operation among legume specialists world-wide to create a biodiversity database for the Leguminosae (Fabaceae) family. The database provides a taxonomic checklist plus basic factual data on distribution, common names, life-forms, uses, conservation statuses and literature references to descriptions, illustrations and maps."	"YR Roskov, FA Bisby, JL Zarucchi, BD Schrire & RJ White (eds)"
16	IOPI Global Plant Checklist	http://www.iopi.org	International Organization for Plant Information (IOPI)	KL Wilson and WG Berendsohn (eds)	"The International Organization for Plant Information (IOPI) aims to produce a database of all vascular plant species and other products such as a World Flora. The checklist currently holds over 200,000 names and implements the innovative potential taxon concept. Data for the cycads and 6 flowering plant families are included in the Annual Checklist. Cycad data come from KD Hill & DW Stevenson, 2004. Eucalypt data supplied from KD Hill & LC Stanberg, 2004. Juncaceae data have been compiled by J Kirschner & KL Wilson, 2004. Chrysobalanaceae data supplied from GT Prance & CA Sothers, 2005. The Rosaceae family dataset was added by R Pankhurst in 2005."	KL Wilson and WG Berendsohn (eds)	
17	The Integrated Taxonomic Information System	http://www.itis.gov/	The Integrated Taxonomic Information System (ITIS)	T Orrell (custodian)	"ITIS places priority on North American species, but also includes global and New World treatments for many groups of biota. ITIS contains more than 535,000 scientific and common names in a standard classification. Each scientific name is assigned a unique numerical identifier called a Taxonomic Serial Number (TSN)."	M Ruggiero (custodian)	
18	The Global Lepidoptera Names Index	http://www.nhm.ac.uk/entomology/lepindex	"The Natural History Museum, London, UK"	"GW Beccaloni, MJ Scoble, GS Robinson & B Pitkin"	"LepIndex is a digitised and updated version of the unique index card archive to the scientific names of the living and fossil butterflies and moths of the world at the Natural History Museum (London). This card index was produced by the museum’s lepidopterists over many decades and it contains about 9 % of all published Lepidoptera names (90,099 in total), including misspellings and misidentifications."	"GW Beccaloni, MJ Scoble, GS Robinson & B Pitkin"	
19	Moss TROPICOS Database	http://www.mobot.org/mobot/tropicos/most/checklist.shtml	MOST: Moss TROPICOS Database	MR Crosby (ed)	"The World Checklist of Mosses (W3MOST) provides current information on bryophyte species from the TROPICOS MOST database compiled by the Index of Mosses project, at the Missouri Botanical Garden. This database extraction, unlike the Index of Mosses, includes taxonomic opinions of numerous authors. All the known species of mosses are included."	MR Crosby (ed)	MR Crosby (ed)
20	Catalogue of the Odonata of the World	http://www.odonata.info	"National Museum of Natural History (Naturalis), Leiden, The Netherlands"	J van Tol	"The Global Species Database of Odonata is a list of all names of extant species of dragonflies and damselflies of the world. The present list is based on a database built during a period of twenty years. The original information was derived from a published catalogue by Davies & Tobin (1984, 1985). However, original publications were consulted to check the spelling and original combination of (virtually) all names. The present taxonomic status of every name in this list is based on published authoritative sources. Addition of the names of fossil taxa, and setting up a management committee for this database, are to be expected in the near future. The original information of the GSD Odonata is managed using a FoxPro application."	J van Tol	
21	Orthoptera Species File Online	http://osf2.orthoptera.org	"The Orthopterists' Society; Illinois Natural History Survey, USA"	"D Otte, D Eades & P Naskrecki"	"The Orthoptera Species File is a taxonomic database of the world's Orthoptera (grasshoppers, locusts, katydids and crickets), both living and fossil. It has full synonymic and taxonomic information for 23,553 valid species, 38,546 taxonomic names and 11,925 references. In addition to the data accessible through the Catalogue of Life, OSF2 also contains specimen data, 32,732 images, 183 sound recordings, and keys to 1,450 taxa."	"DC Eades, D Otte & P Naskrecki"	
22	Parhost World Database of Fleas	http://www.zin.ru/Animalia/Siphonapterahttp://www.zin.ru/Animalia/Siphonaptera	"Zoological Institute, Russian Academy of Sciences, St Petersburg, Russia"	"S Medvedev, A Lobanov & I Lyangouzov"	"The Parhost World Database of Fleas is a complete electronic taxonomic checklist of order Siphonaptera. This is part of the original analytical system PARHOST, which contains extensive data on flea morphology, parasite-host associations, and geographical distribution."	"S Medvedev, A Lobanov & I Lyangouzov"	
23	Phyllachorales	http://www.speciesfungorum.org	CABI	PF Cannon	"Phyllachorales are mostly biotrophic parasites of angiosperms with strong evidence of co-evolution (particularly with the legumes and grasses); some are necrotrophic and a few saprobic. They occur primarily on the leaves and stems, rarely on the roots and have a widespread, but especially tropical, distribution linked, in the case of the biotrophs, with their hosts."	PF Cannon	
24	World Checklist of Selected Plant Families	http://www.kew.org/wcsp/	"Royal Botanic Gardens Kew, Richmond, Surrey, UK"	A Paton	"The global plant family checklists are compiled at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew. Each family checklist aims to provide the correct scientific name and includes all known published and accepted species and infraspecific taxa with their synonyms. They include the global distribution both in a narrative form and the Botanical country codes as defined by the Taxonomic Databases Working Group. Pertinent nomenclatural and other comments as well as life-forms are included. Monocots are completed now and will be available in the 2008 Catalogue of Life."	R Govaerts (ed). See http://www.kew.org/wcsp/compilersReviewers.do  for the list of reviewers.	
25	Rhytismatales database	http://www.speciesfungorum.org	CABI	DW Minter	"The Rhytismatales, commonly referred to as ‘tar-spot’ fungi, are facultatively biotrophic, necrotrophic or saprobic on leaves and bark, sometimes also fruits, seeds and wood, frequently beginning as symptomless endobionts, later fruiting when the substratum has died. Those causing economic damage as needle diseases in conifers are the least poorly known. Their positive value as nutrient recyclers, and their possible protective role as endobionts is almost completely unevaluated. Most records are from the north temperate to subarctic zones, or from southern South America and Australasia; many collections are on conifers, the Ericaceae and Gramineae. Some species are widespread and plurivorous; others highly host-specific and limited in distribution."	DW Minter	
26	Systematic Database of the Scale Insects of the World	http://www.sel.barc.usda.gov/scalenet/scalenet.htm	"Agricultural Research Organization, Bet Dagan, Israel; USDA, Systematic Entomology Laboratory, Beltsville, USA"	Y Ben-Dov & DR Miller	"The ScaleNet site provides comprehensive information on the scale insects (Hemiptera: Coccoidea) of the world, including queriable information on their classification, nomenclatural history, geographical distribution, host plants, natural enemies, economic importance and literature. Currently information can be retrieved for 27 families, and data of about 21,000 references dating from 1758 to the present. Ultimately, information will be provided for all 28 families of scale insects, comprising more than 7,500 species."	Y Ben-Dov & DR Miller	
27	World Scarabaeidae Database	http://www.coleoptera.org./p735.htm	Individual custodian	P Schoolmeesters	"The World Scarabaeidae Database is currently only accessible through this checklist. It is included on the Annual Checklist by kind permission of Paul Schoolmeesters (schoolp@skynet.be). The Scarabids are a large family of beetles, believed to include about 35,000 species. This database is well on the way to completion, with taxonomic data for 18,000 species. The Melolonthinae and Rutelinae are not included."	P Schoolmeesters	
28	Species Fungorum	http://www.speciesfungorum.org	CABI	PM Kirk	"The Index Fungorum (maintained by the Index Fungorum Partnership) is the global nomenclatural database for fungi (Fungi, chromistan fungi, protozoan fungi) and contains over 380,000 names at the rank of species and below. Some names in this database comprise the Species Fungorum component from CABI Bioscience and are identified as the correct name for a taxon or as a synonym. The names of about 34,000 species (plus 65,000 synonyms) of mainly economically important fungi in groups that are not yet covered globally in other GSDs are included. Species Fungorum aspires to be a global checklist of the fungi and provides links to sources of additional information (descriptions, illustrations, on-line identification systems) where these are available."	PM Kirk	
29	The World Spider Catalog	http://research.amnh.org/entomology/spiders/catalog/	"American Museum of Natural History, New York, USA; Queensland Museum, Brisbane, Australia"	NI Platnick & RJ Raven	"A successor to 14 published volumes by Bonnet, Roewer, Brignoli, and Platnick, the World Spider Catalog aims to provide listings of all currently valid species, genera, and families of spiders, all their synonyms, and all significant taxonomic references to each species, from Linnaeus to date. The version available on the web is updated semiannually; the database version is updated as funding opportunities allow."	NI Platnick & RJ Raven	
30	TicksBase	http://www.icttd.nl	"Utrecht University, The Netherlands"	"AM Nijhof, AA Guglielmone & IG Horak"	"TicksBase is a searchable taxonomic catalogue of all known ticks (Acari: Ixodida) of the world and is facilitated by the International Consortium on Ticks and Tick-borne Diseases (ICTTD). It currently comprises 889 valid species (702 Ixodid, 186 Argasid and 1 Nuttalliella tick (sub-)species), including their synonyms, (limited) distribution data and common names."	"AM Nijhof, AA Guglielmone & IG Horak"	
31	Tineidae NHM: Global taxonomic database of Tineidae (Lepidoptera)	http://www.nhm.ac.uk./entomology/tineidae/index.html	"Natural History Museum, London, UK"	G Robinson	"The Tineidae - the clothes-moth family - comprises more than 23,000 currently recognized species of small to medium-sized moths. They differ from all other Lepidoptera in their unorthodox larval biology: most tineid larvae feed on plant or animal detritus, lichen or fungi. In addition to the data available in the Catalogue of Life, this database also gives information on where, when and by whom each taxon was described, and where the original type specimen(s) came from."	G Robinson	
32	Cerambycidae database	https://www.orleans.ird.fr/titan/https://www.orleans.ird.fr/titan/	"Institut de Recherche pour le Développement (IRD), Paris, France"	G Tavakilian	"This database is gathering the complete bibliography of the American species of Cerambycidae (sensu lato), Timber beetles. The main references for European species (completely represented) and many for the species from other continents are being added gradually. There are currently more than 29,000 taxa included and 21,000 types, as well as their host plants if known."	G Tavakilian
33	Trichomycetes database	http://www.nhm.ku.edu/~fungi/	"University of Kansas, Lawrence, USA"	RW Lichtwardt	"The trichomycetes (Fungi, class Trichomycetes plus ecologically related protozoans) are a cosmopolitan group of organisms that grow obligately in the guts of insects, crustaceans and millipedes that live in freshwater, marine or terrestrial habitats. Many trichomycetes appear to be commensalistic, but under particular circumstances they may provide their hosts with some essential organic nutrients."	RW Lichtwardt
34	Universal Chalcidoidea Database	http://www.nhm.ac.uk/entomology/chalcidoids	"The Natural History Museum, London, UK"	J Noyes	"Work on the Universal Chalcidoidea Database was started, with the help of small grants from Unilever and Tate & Lyle plc, in August 1991 with the aim of making it freely available in electronic format. The Chalcidoidea is a large group of insects, currently numbering about 23,000 species, many of which have an important impact on major ecosystems and are frequently used for the biocontrol of insect pests. The database is intended to provide comprehensive information on the taxonomy, biology and distribution of all included species."	J Noyes
35	UNESCO-IOC Register of Marine Organisms	\N	"National Museum of Natural History (Naturalis), Leiden, The Netherlands"	J van der Land (ed)	"The UNESCO-IOC Register of Marine Organisms (URMO) is an already large and gradually growing dataset that is being built up and maintained by Jacob van der Land at the National Museum of Natural History, Leiden. Access to completed data sets will be provided in the near future by the IODE project office at Ostend, Belgium, and Naturalis, Leiden. The register contains a number of global species databases for exclusively marine invertebrates and 20 of these are included in this Annual Checklist in 13 phyla and 7 classes."	J van der Land (ed)
36	Home of the Xylariaceae	http://mycology.sinica.edu.tw/xylariaceae/default.asp	"Institute of Plant and Microbial Biology, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan; Deptartment of Plant Pathology, Washington State University, USA"	YM Ju & J Rogers	"Members of the Xylariaceae are among the most commonly encountered groups of ascomycetes. Most are inhabitants of wood, seeds, fruits or leaves of angiosperms; some are associated with insect nests. Whilst most are saprobic and decay wood, some are plant pathogens; many are endophytes. They are commonly found throughout the temperate and tropical regions of the World."	YM Ju & J Rogers
37	Zoological-Botanical Database (Vespoidea)	http://www.zobodat.at	"Oberostereichisches Landesmuseum, Biologiezentrum, Linz, Austria"	J Gusenleitner	"ZOBODAT is a digitally organised biogeographical database including facilities for analysis, documentation and communication. Founded in 1972 by Univ.- Prof. Dr. Ernst Rudolf Reichl, ZOBODAT was taken over by the federal county of Upper Austria in 1999. It is located at the Biology Centre of the Museum of Upper Austria. The original database includes information about the temporal and spatial distribution of animal and plant species and various supporting information topics. Most of the data traditionally refer to insects of Austria, but ZOBODAT can be used for all groups of organisms and world-wide. ZOBODAT contributes the superfamily Vespoidea to the Catalogue of Life."	J Gusenleitner
38	Zygomycetes	http://www.speciesfungorum.org	CABI	PM Kirk	"The Mucorales, Zoopagales, Dimargaritales and Kickxellales are characterised by a wide range of life strategies for such a relatively small number of phylogenetically related species. Whilst most are saprobic (in soil) others are pathogenic on plants, animals (including man) and other fungi, either facultatively and unspecialized or highly host specific. They are mainly mesophiles but some are psychrophiles and others thermophiles; most are temperate but some only have a tropical distribution and a number of species are very widely distributed, having been recorded from the Antarctic, high northern latitudes and both east and west in temperate and tropical zones."	PM Kirk
39	Electronic Catalogue of Weevil names (Curculionoidea)	http://wtaxa.csic.es	"Museo Nacional de Ciencias Naturales, Madrid, Spain & Natural History Museum, London, UK"	"MA Alonso-Zarazaga & CHC Lyal (authors), M Sánchez-Ruiz (technical editor)"	"The Electronic Catalogue of Weevil Names is a project in progress. Ultimately it will contain all family, genus and species-group names in the Curculionoidea, a group of beetles with about 60,000 described species which contains many important insects, including the bark beetles (Scolytinae) and powder-post beetles (Platypodinae). Currently the database contains all generic and family-group names, in their current taxonomic position, and based on Alonso-Zarazaga & Lyal’s (1999, 2002, 2005 ) catalogue of weevil family and genus names. Species-group names are being added, but are not yet all present nor checked against original publication or current placement."	"MA Alonso-Zarazaga & CHC Lyal (authors), M Sánchez-Ruiz (technical editor)"
40	World Species List of Annonaceae	http://www.annonaceae.org/	"Annonaceae Working Group; University of Vienna, Austria; Universities of Leiden, Utrecht, and Wageningen, The Netherlands"	H Rainer & LW Chatrou	"AnnonBase includes all published names of Annonaceae of any rank worldwide. The idea of this development is to serve as a concise taxonomic backbone for basic as well as applied scientific studies. The AnnonBase source database also includes references to type material and their location of deposit. Future releases will include information on vernacular names, distributional data and links to relevant information sources. Database development and maintenance has been done at the University of Vienna funded by the Universities of Utrecht and Vienna and the European Commission."	H Rainer & LW Chatrou (eds)
41	Systematic Myriapod Database	http://www.gbif.de/evertebrata2/GloMyrIS 	"Zoologische Staatssammlung München, München, Germany"	J Spelda	"SysMyr was developed by Jörg Spelda, in collaboration with the Bavarian State Collection for Zoology as a taxonomic backbone for the GBIF node 'evertebrata2'. It has diverse information on over 19,000 names of Chilopoda, Diplopoda, Pauropoda and Symphyla. The acceptance status is automatically evaluated and depends on the latest citation found in the included literature. As names are automatically extracted from literature be aware of the fact that there are still many synonyms not yet connected. They occur as valid species at present. SysMyr contributes data on the Diplopoda, Pauropoda and Symphyla to the Catalogue of Life."	J Spelda
42	A World Catalogue of Centipedes (Chilopoda) for the Web	http://chilobase.bio.unipd.it	"Department of Biology, University of Padova, Italy"	A Minelli	"ChiloBase is a taxonomic database of all known extant centipedes (Chilopoda) of the world including a modern taxonomic system. It provides information on all taxa within the group, including synonymy. In addition to the data available through the Catalogue of Life, the original database also includes original descriptions, type localities and type species. It was compiled by an international team of expert taxonomists with support from GBIF."	A Minelli (ed)
43	The Lecythidaceae Pages	http://sweetgum.nybg.org/lp	"The New York Botanical Garden, New York, USA"	Melissa Tulig	"The Lecythidaceae is a family of tropical trees found in Africa, Madagascar, Southeast Asia, and the New World tropics. It reaches its greatest diversity in the Neotropics and is best known for the Brazil nut of commerce (Bertholletia excelsa) and the cannon-ball tree (Couroupita guianensis). The latter species, although native to the Neotropics, is planted as an ornamental and botanical curiosity in subtropical and tropical botanical gardens throughout the world. The database includes all names in the family with the status (accepted or unaccepted) and synonymy provided for each name. The names have been abstracted from the most recent monographs of the family. A more comprehensive database, especially of the New World species, is found as part of the Virtual Herbarium of The New York Botanical Garden."	"SA Mori, GT Prance & M Tulig"
44	World Porifera Database	http://www.vliz.be/vmdcdata/porifera	"Zoological Museum of the University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands"	Rob van Soest	"The World Porifera database is a searchable catalogue of recent sponge species and higher taxon names. The catalogue is intended to promote stability and act as a tool for higher taxon revisions, regional monographs, and eventually as a catalogue of the world's sponge specimen databases as these are slowly being accumulated through EurOBIS and GBIF."	R van Soest (ed)
45	Conifer Database	\N	Individual custodian	Aljos Farjon	The Conifer database is a taxonomic and specimen database of all 630 species of conifers in the world based on herbarium specimens from many herbaria. The database has been compiled primarily as a tool for taxonomic revisions and to produce checklists and reports. Work on the database is in progress so not all information is available for all species.	A Farjon
46	Global Butterfly Information System	http://www.insects-online.de/frames/papilio.htm	"State Museum of Natural History, Stuttgart, Germany"	"Norbert Hirneisen, Christoph Häuser"	"The GloBIS/GART database provides the taxonomic backbone for a global information system on butterflies. In addition to the data presented in the Catalogue of Life, the original GloBIS/GART database provides information about the type material such as type locality, status and current location of the type specimens and images, as well as the original and current taxonomic placement. Currently data for the family Papilionidae (swallowtails) are available (553 recognized species, more than 1,800 taxa), with Pieridae to be added shortly, and other butterfly families to follow."	"C Häuser, J Holstein & A Steiner (eds)"
47	Rotifera Database - Beta version	http://FADA.biodiversity.be	"Belgian Biodiversity Platform, Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences, Brussels, Belgium"	Hendrik Segers	A taxonomic database of accepted and the most commonly used synonyms in the phylum Rotifera with information on biogeography. The database was prepared under the Freshwater Animal Diversity Assessment project (see http://www.biodiversity.be/thematic-forums/freshwater-ecosystems/global-biodiversity-assessment). The beta version supplied for the 2007 Catalogue of Life includes accepted names but no synonyms or distribution data. 	H Segers
48	Geranium Taxonomic Information System	http://www.rjb.csic.es/Geranium	"Real Jardín Botánico de Madrid, CSIC, Madrid, Spain"	Carlos Aedo	"This is a database of Geranium names and synonymic checklist of the genus which is a part of a project to prepare a worldwide monograph of cranesbills. It is partly financed by the Spanish Government through the research projects REN2003-00982/GLO, and CGL2004-00172/BOS."	C Aedo
